'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH x2goclient 1 "Apr 2014" "Version 4.0.2.1" "X2Go Client (Qt4)"
.SH NAME
x2goclient \- Client application to launch server-side X2Go sessions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBx2goclient\fR  <options>

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBx2goclient\fR is a GUI application for launching server-side X2Go sessions.
.PP
.SH GUI OPTIONS
\fBx2goclient\fR has the following options:
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-help-pack\fR\*(T>
Show available pack methods and exit.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-no-menu\fR\*(T>
Hide menu-/toolbar (default: false).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-maximize\fR\*(T>
Start client maximized (default: false).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-hide\fR\*(T>
Hide client (start hidden, default: false).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-keep-trayicon\fR\*(T>
Always keep the "accelerated X" icon in the system tray. Without this option the default behaviour is:
Switch the tray icon to the session's icon on successful session startup/resumption.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-tray-icon\fR\*(T>
Show tray icon (default: false). This option overrides the global tray icon settings and also forces the tray icon
to be shown in hidden X2Go Client mode.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-hide-foldersharing\fR\*(T>
Hide all elements in X2Go Client GUI that are related to folder sharing.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-close\-disconnect\fR\*(T>
Close X2Go Client after a session got disconnected.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-client-ssh-port\fR\*(T>
Local ssh port (for filesystem export, default: 22).
.SH PROFILING SESSIONS GLOBALLY
You can pre-profile sessions globally using the following options. They will override the options in the session profiles.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-user\fR\*(T>
Pre-selection of user at client startup (LDAP mode).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-command\fR\*(T>
Default command for session startup.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-sessionid\fR\*(T>
Pre-selection of session ID at client startup.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ssh-port\fR\*(T>
Use this TCP/IP port for connection (default: 22).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-link\fR\*(T>
Set default link type (modem,isdn,adsl,wan or lan, default: adsl).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-pack\fR\*(T>
Set default pack method (default: '16m-jpeg').
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-quality\fR\*(T>
Set default image quality(0-9, default: 9).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-set-kbd\fR\*(T>
Overwrite current keyboard settings, no override by default.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-kbd-layout\fR\*(T>
Set keyboard layout (default: 'de').
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-kbd-type\fR\*(T>
Set keyboard type (default: pc105/de).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-fullscreen\fR\*(T>
Start session in fullscreen mode.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-width\fR\*(T>
Start session with this width (default: 800).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-sound\fR\*(T>
Activate sound for session, not enabled by default.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-sound-system\fR\*(T>
Which soundsystem to use: arts, esd, pulse (default: arts).
.SH THIN CLIENT OPTIONS
The following command line options are primarily interesting if \fBx2goclient\fR is used
as a login manager on X2Go thin clients.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-session=<session-profile-name>\fR\*(T>
Pre-selection of session at client startup.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-no-session-edit\fR\*(T>
Disable session editing.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-pgp-card\fR\*(T>
Use openPGP Card authentication (default: false).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-external-login=<smartcard-logins>\fR\*(T>
Authenticate via SMART card, path to login notification file.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-add-to-known-hosts\fR\*(T>
Add DSA/RSA host key fingerprint to .ssh/known_hosts in case of "authenticity of server can't be established".
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-read-exports-from\fR\*(T>
Specifies a directory where some external mechanism (e.g. script) can notify \fBx2goclient\fR on
new block devices (CD/DVDs, USB sticks, etc.).
.SH BROKER OPTIONS
In case you want to retrieve \fBx2goclient\fR session profiles from an X2Go Session Broker use the following options:
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-url=<URL>\fR\*(T>
Specify the <URL> of the X2Go Session Broker. X2Go Client can access http:// and ssh:// style URLs.

Syntax of <URL> for HTTP brokerage:

http(s)://<user>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/path/to/broker 

Syntax of <URL> for  SSH brokerage:

ssh://<user>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/usr/bin/x2gobroker (or any executable that
provides the broker via SSH).

.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-cacertfile=</path/to/cafile.crt>\fR\*(T>
Specify a special (self-signed) root-CACert file that shall get used when connecting to an X2Go Session Broker via https (SSL).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-noauth\fR\*(T>
The X2Go Session Broker is accessible without authentication.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-auth-id=<USERNAME>\fR\*(T>
Use this <USERNAME> for authenticating against the X2Go Session Broker. This option mostly makes sense together
with \fI--broker-autologin\fR or \fI--broker-ssh-key\fR.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-autologin\fR\*(T>
For SSH based X2Go Session Brokers. If an SSH agent is available or default key files exist then
try those for authentication against the X2Go Session Broker.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-autologoff\fR\*(T>
Enforce re-authentication against X2Go Session Broker after a session has been suspended or terminated.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-ssh-key=<SSHPRIVKEY>\fR\*(T>
For SSH based X2Go Session Brokers. Full path to a valid SSH private key file.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-broker-name=<NAME>\fR\*(T>
Currently unused...

.SH LDAP OPTIONS (deprecated)
NOTE: LDAP support won't be continued in X2Go Client 2 (next generation of X2Go Client). The LDAP
functionality already is fully available via the X2Go Session Brokerage feature.
.PP
In case you want to retrieve \fBx2goclient\fR session profiles from an LDAP server use the following options:
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ldap\fR\*(T>
Start with LDAP support (disabled by default).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-basedn\fR\*(T>
Base DN to search in LDAP.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ldap-server\fR\*(T>
LDAP Server hostname.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ldap-port\fR\*(T>
LDAP Server portnumber (default: 389).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ldap-server1\fR\*(T>
Failover LDAP Server hostname.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ldap-port1\fR\*(T>
Failover LDAP Server portnumber (default: 389).
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-ldap-server2\fR\*(T>
Failover LDAP Server hostname.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This manual has been written by Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2Go project
(http://www.x2go.org).
